I'm back on the bigger screen and added some dummy transactions again. Now the last responsive change
which I want to take care of is that if we have more width available, like in this case here, maybe we
want to show more information than on smaller screens. The concrete example I have in mind is that we
could show some helper text next to that trash icon.
It should be pretty clear what will happen if we press that trash icon but nonetheless, it could be
interesting to
add some extra meta information, also of course mostly that you learned how to build or add different
items based on different screen size because thus far what we did is, we took the size of the screen
into account to size things differently.
Now I want to add content if we have more space available and that's a bit different of course.
For that, let's go back to the transaction list widget which is where we output that ListTile and where
we also have that trash
icon here and in the end, it should be a normal IconButton like this
if we have limited width available but when we have more width, I want to show a button with a text next
to it.
Now of course, you already know how you can find out if we're in landscape and portrait mode
but let's say I don't really care about the orientation,
I really only cared about the available width. So even if we are in portrait mode but let's say we have
a very large device, like an iPhone xs plus or anything like that, then I might still want to show
that text.
So I really only care about the width and not about the orientation
and that's why the orientation property on media query doesn't really help us but
we can of course also use the size and there the width in a condition. For this here when we render our
button, we can of course use MediaQuery.of(context) and then tap into the size and there into the
width
and now simply compare that and let's say if we have more width than let's say 400 pixels or 360, you can
take any arbitrary value and find out what looks good, then I want to render a button that has an icon
and a text,
otherwise I only want to render that
IconButton. Now for a button with icon and text, you can use a FlatButton and then there, a special
constructor which we haven't seen before with dot, there is an icon constructor and that gives you a
FlatButton which also has an icon but also a text. There, you can then set a color and of course, I
want to use the same color as I did here, like this and most importantly of course, we want to set an
icon which we do with an icon property but then also a label,
so that's the text show next to the icon and label here if you inspect this is a widget
but typically of course, you use a text widget here and there I could say delete.
Now of course, I also want to add onPressed here and do the same as on the IconButton
and now with that, we have a setup which should show us that button with icon and text if we have enough
space and only show the icon if we have less space. So yes,
this generally works.
Small mistake,
you shouldn't set color here but text color. If you set text color to red,
now the icon in the text has the color instead of the background
and now indeed we see both
and if I would ramp this up to let's say 460, this device I think has 411, then we
don't see that
but if I go into landscape mode where we have more width available, we see both again.
So this is also a useful pattern that you can show and hide content and render different widgets based
on your device size, which of course allows you to build truly flexible apps.
And for now I'll leave
this at 460 here, so that we can see both the icon without the text and with the text, solely depending
on the available device size.